"question","option_a","option_b","option_c","option_d","correct_answer","explanation"
"Which cause type answers 'why' something is happening?","Root cause","Underlying cause","Precipitating cause","Immediate cause","C","The precipitating cause answers 'why' it is happening. The immediate cause is the initial/lighter cause and the root cause is the deepest/major cause."
"In the China economic rise example what is the ROOT cause?","China joining the WTO","Growing market demand","Massive domestic structural reforms","Effects of globalization in Asia","A","The root cause is massive domestic structural reforms — the deepest/major cause. Growing market demand is the precipitating cause."
"Who introduced the concept of 'globality'?","Karl Marx","Robertson","Held and McGrew","MacKinder","B","The term 'globality' was introduced by Robertson. Karl Marx and MacKinder also contributed to the roots of globalization but Robertson is credited with introducing 'globality.'"
"In which decades did the term 'globalization' gain worldwide attention?","1970s and 1980s","1950s and 1960s","1960s and 1970s","1940s and 1950s","A","According to Held and McGrew (2002) the term 'globalization' gained worldwide attention in the 1960s and 1970s."
"What is the Arabic word for globalization examined by Scholte (2002)?","quanqiuhua","mondialisation","globalización","alam","D","The Arabic word is 'alam.' Quanqiuhua is Chinese mondialisation is French and globalización is Spanish."
"How did Ritzer (2008) define globalization?","Replacing the sovereign state system with multilateral governance","A multidimensional set of social processes that stretch social interdependencies","A process of competing nation-states for dominance","The spread of worldwide practices relations consciousness and organization of social life","D","Ritzer (2008) defined globalization as the spread of worldwide practices relations consciousness and organization of social life. The other options belong to Rosenberg and Held & McGrew."
"Who argued that globalization 'replaced the sovereign state system with a multilateral system of global governance'?","Justine Rosenberg","Roland Robertson","Held and McGrew","Ritzer","A","Justine Rosenberg argued that globalization replaced the sovereign state system with a multilateral system of global governance."
"Globalization 1.0 (1492-1800) is characterized by which of the following?","Formation of market integrations and MNCs","Mercantilism and the rise of the British economy","Active consumerism and labor migration","Technology and the internet driving trade","B","Globalization 1.0 (1492-1800) is characterized by mercantilism and the rise of the British economy including key inventions like the steam engine and printing press."
"Which phase of globalization is known as the 'Age of Pax Britannica'?","Globalization 1.0","None of the above","Globalization 3.0","Globalization 2.0","B","Globalization 2.0 (1800-1950) is known as the Age of Pax Britannica. It concluded with World War II and was marked by market integrations."
"Sociologists described Globalization 3.0 as part of which concept?","Mercantilism","Modernity","Imperialism","Post-colonialism","B","Sociologists described Globalization 3.0 (1950-2000) as part of modernity. This phase was driven by technology the internet MNCs and active consumerism."
"Under Realism what are the two main sources of POLITICAL power?","Resources and technology","Economic markets and manpower","Institutions and diplomacy","Military strength and territory","C","Under Realism political power comes from military strength and territory. Economic power includes market resources financial and manpower while technology includes logistics and systems."
"Which of the following is cited as a Realist example for opening economies?","Formation of the WTO","McDonald's expanding globally","The Bush Doctrine spreading liberal democracy","China joining the WTO","C","The Bush Doctrine — fighting terrorism by spreading liberal democracy — is cited as a Realist example of using political-military power. Condoleezza Rice described it as pragmatic realism."
"Under Liberalism which approach did the Philippines use in the West Philippine Sea dispute?","Military alliance with the US","Hard power through military vessels","Imposing trade sanctions on China","Protesting in the International Criminal Court","D","The Philippines used a Liberalist soft approach by protesting in the International Criminal Court — using negotiations and dialogues rather than military force."
"Which organization is cited under the 'International Organizations' factor of Liberal Globalization?","OPEC","ASEAN Economic Community","European Economic Community","McDonald's","A","OPEC is cited as an example of international organizations in Liberal Globalization as it represents global commitment to sustainability of oil supply. NATO and WTO are also cited."
"Who are the key founders of Idealism/Constructivism?","Hans Morgenthau and Kenneth Waltz","David Ricardo and Adam Smith","Alexander Wendt and Hugh Ruggie","Woodrow Wilson and Condoleezza Rice","C","Alexander Wendt and Hugh Ruggie are cited as the key founders of Idealism/Constructivism. Morgenthau and Waltz founded Realist thought."
"Which characteristic of globalization was specifically noted by Roland Robertson?","Creation and multiplication of social networks","Intensification and acceleration of human activities","Consciousness and awareness of people as primary actors","Expansion and stretching of social operations","C","Roland Robertson specifically noted consciousness and awareness — where people as primary actors of globalization impact growing outcomes through their daily actions."
"Which characteristic of globalization is most directly linked to the Fourth Industrial Revolution?","Creation and multiplication","Consciousness and awareness","Intensification and acceleration","Expansion and stretching","C","Intensification and acceleration of human activities is driven by the digital age as part of the Fourth Industrial Revolution."
"According to Kearney (1995) what does 'transnationalization' specifically refer to?","The spread of Western culture globally","The formation of multilateral governance systems","The replacement of national sovereignty with global institutions","When people or groups transcend from one nation to the next","D","Kearney (1995) argues transnationalization occurs when people or groups transcend from one nation to the next — distinct from both westernization and globalization."
"What year did China join the WTO?","1999","2000","2001","2003","C","China joined the WTO in 2001 making it a more competitive player in the global market. By 2017 China was ranked the #2 most powerful economy."
"According to Kukreja (2008) which event increased the number of emerging market players?","China's WTO accession","India's BPO growth","The collapse of the USSR","The formation of ASEAN","C","Kukreja (2008) identifies the collapse of the USSR as one of the three critical stages — causing communist governments to collapse and Eastern European nations to depart increasing emerging market players."
"What is the key driver of India's economy according to the reviewer?","Manufacturing and heavy industry","Oil and petroleum products","BPO and telecommunications","Rice production and agriculture","C","BPO (Business Process Outsourcing) and telecommunications are the key drivers of India's economy positioning it to join the ranks of most powerful economies."
"Which scholar described the interconnectedness of the world economy as the 'forefront marker of globalization'?","Angrist et al.","Balaam and Veseth","Held and McGrew","Kurtonov (2020)","D","Kurtonov (2020) described the interconnectedness of the world economy as the forefront marker of globalization — the meeting point of developed and developing economies."
"In the Toyota example which countries are cited where Toyota MANUFACTURES auto parts?","Singapore and Malaysia","Thailand and Vietnam","Germany and Japan","Philippines and Indonesia","D","Toyota manufactures auto parts in the Philippines and Indonesia due to high availability of cheap manpower then offers finished products in Singapore and Malaysia where demand is higher."
"What does Thailand have as its key economic strength?","Minerals and mining","Oil and petroleum","High production output of rice","BPO and telecommunications","C","Thailand is cited for its high production output of rice — different from the Philippines despite similar topography and environmental conditions."
"In a pure Market Economy who determines economic decisions?","The central planning body","Private individuals through supply and demand","A coalition of businesses and the government","Government ministries","B","In a pure Market Economy the decision-making of private individuals is the determinant. Economic activities are based on interaction of supply and demand — not planned by any single person or group."
"Which of the following is an advantage of a Market Economy?","Encourages producers to innovate products for market comfort and satisfaction","Government-directed innovation","Eliminates competition among businesses","Equal distribution of wealth","A","Innovation is an advantage of the Market Economy — it encourages competing producers to develop items that provide comfort and satisfaction to the market."
"What is the PRIMARY objective of a Command Economy?","To maximize innovation and competition","To mobilize resources for the common good and interest of the nation","To reduce the role of government in economic activity","To attract foreign direct investment","B","The objective of a Command Economy is to mobilize resources for the common good of the public and the interest of the nation — though it involves abolition of private ownership."
"Which of the following is a cited PROBLEM of a Command Economy?","Excessive competition between firms","Over-reliance on foreign direct investment","Unregulated consumer behavior","Limited production faulty decisions and weak domestic investments","D","Problems of a Command Economy include limited production faulty decisions and weak domestic investments — resulting from centralized control with no private economic freedom."
"The United States Great Britain and France are examples of which economic system?","Market Economy","Mixed Economy","Transitional Economy","Command Economy","B","The United States Great Britain and France are cited as examples of Mixed Economies — market-driven economies that combine market and command systems of economic planning."
"During which crisis did the American government take over collapsing financial corporations?","The Dot-com crash of 2000","The 2008-2009 financial crisis","The Great Depression of 1929","The 1997 Asian financial crisis","B","The 2008-2009 financial crisis is cited. When the American market was hit the government took over some collapsing financial corporations — an example of Mixed Economy intervention (Mizruchi 2010)."
"What organization preceded the WTO in governing international trade?","ASEAN Economic Community","Bretton Woods Institution","General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)","North American Free Trade Agreement","C","GATT preceded the WTO. It was formed after World War II and trade rules developed through a series of rounds or meetings of member economies."
"According to Balaam and Veseth (2008) what is International Trade?","The flow of foreign direct investments across borders","The process when goods commodities and services cross national economies in exchange for money or goods of another country","The movement of TNCs from developed to developing economies","The formation of multilateral institutions to govern economic policy","B","Balaam and Veseth (2008) define International Trade as the process and system when goods commodities and services cross national economies and boundaries in exchange for money or goods of another country."
"What does 'laissez-faire' mean in the context of Descriptive Trade Theory?","Government control of all trade","Leave alone — individuals are the best economic agents through the invisible hand","Trade governed by colonial powers","Free trade restricted by international bodies","B","Laissez-faire is a French term meaning 'leave alone' — referring to the notion that individuals are the best economic agents to solve problems through the invisible hand rather than government policies."
"What does Prescriptive Trade Theory primarily address?","How individuals choose which goods to trade","How MNCs expand across national borders","Which countries should join regional economic blocs","Whether the government should interfere and restrict the movement of goods and services","D","Prescriptive Trade Theory prescribes whether the government should interfere and restrict the movement of goods and services — addressing the pressing question of whether government should control trade."
"David Ricardo's Law of Comparative Advantage is derived from which principle?","Invisible hand and laissez-faire","Mercantilism and colonial rule","Specialization and division of labor","Command economy and state planning","C","Ricardo's Law of Comparative Advantage is derived from the principle of specialization and division of labor (Nau 2009) — explaining that free trade efficiency is attainable when countries specialize in their strengths."
"Who are identified as key critics of Economic Liberalism who stressed the need for government control?","David Ricardo and Adam Smith","Woodrow Wilson and Hugh Ruggie","Immanuel Wallerstein and Baran","Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List","D","Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List are identified as key critics of Economic Liberalism who stressed the need for a government and economic body to control and oversee the operation of the economy."
"What time period does Mercantilism refer to?","1500-1800","1800-1950","1950-2000","1492-1800","A","Mercantilism is an economic theory that emerged from about 1500-1800 during the emerging eras of nation-states and the formation of more central governments."
"Under Mercantilism why did colonial powers want higher exports than imports?","To develop the domestic consumer market","To support trade objectives and strengthen colonial rule and possessions","To lower the cost of production","To attract foreign direct investment","B","Governments imposed restrictions requiring higher exports than imports to support their trade objectives and strengthen their colonial rule and possessions — a core mercantilist mechanism."
"Who developed the Modern World System (MWS) Theory?","Baran","Immanuel Wallerstein","Nau","Balaam and Veseth","B","Immanuel Wallerstein developed the Modern World System (MWS) Theory which explains the contact of economies between core semi-peripheral and peripheral countries."
"In the Modern World System which region became the PERIPHERY economy?","Eastern Europe","Mediterranean Europe","South Asia","Northwest Europe","A","Eastern Europe became the periphery economy — heavily exporting agricultural products to the core. Northwest Europe was the core and Mediterranean Europe was the semi-periphery."
"What role did Mediterranean Europe play in the Modern World System?","Core — absolute advantage over others","Periphery — exported agricultural products","Semi-periphery — intermediary using labor-intensive industry","Emerging market — transitioning to core","C","Mediterranean Europe served as the semi-periphery — acting as an intermediary between core and periphery using its labor-intensive industry."
"Which of the six reasons for international trade involves lowering production cost by expanding the global market?","Reduction of Risk","Use of Excess Capacity in Demand","Cheaper Supplies","Cost Reduction and Increase of Profit","D","Cost Reduction and Increase of Profit involves a market leader gaining lower production cost by increasing its global market rather than domestically — enabling increased profit while reducing costs."
"Which reason for international trade is described as an alternative for countries vulnerable to supply shortages?","Cheaper Supplies","Addition to Product Line","Reduction of Risk","Foreign Policy Tool","C","Reduction of Risk is the reason — importing products is seen as an alternative for countries vulnerable to supply shortages to confront demand and supply conditions of the local market."
"Which policy is described as the record of all foreign transactions by an economy each year?","Balance of Payments under Trade Policy","Exchange Rate Policy","Macroeconomic Policy","Foreign Capital Investment Policy","A","Balance of Payments (BoP) is the record of all foreign transactions by an economy each year — it falls under Trade Policy and is an ideal criterion for identifying a country's international economic status."
"Monetary policy is a decision of which institution?","The legislature","The central bank","The World Bank","The ministry of trade","B","Monetary policy is a decision of the central bank to change the money supply to influence interest rates with the goal of managing price stability and full employment."
"What does Fiscal Policy focus on?","Interest rates and money supply","Consumer behavior and price control","Currency rules of the domestic market","Government's revenue and expenditures","D","Fiscal Policy focuses on the government's revenue and expenditures — representing national economic activities where the government concentrates on cutting expenses to avoid budget deficits."
"Which policy involves price control monitoring consumer behavior and private firms' operations?","Microeconomic Policy","Governance Policy","Exchange Rate Policy","Macroeconomic Policy","A","Microeconomic Policies are government policies that provide precautionary measures in price control monitoring consumer behavior and private firms' operations."
"Which policy is most sensitive to US dollar fluctuations for developing countries?","Exchange Rate Policy","Migration Policy","Foreign Capital Investment Policy","Trade Policy","A","Exchange Rate Policy is described as highly sensitive for developing countries. Every time the dollar fluctuates local currency is inversely affected."
"What is Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)?","The movement of goods across national borders","When a firm purchases or invests directly in facilities like factories stores or warehouses to produce in a foreign country","The licensing of intellectual property to foreign companies","The issuance of government bonds to foreign buyers","B","FDI occurs when a firm purchases or invests directly in facilities like factories stores or warehouses for the purpose of producing or marketing a product in a foreign country."
"Why did the term 'MNC' evolve into 'Transnational Corporation (TNC)'?","MNCs were dissolved after Globalization 2.0","MNCs became government-owned entities","Because of the magnitude of global production and networks making TNC the more acceptable name","TNC refers only to Asian corporations","C","Because of the magnitude of global production and networks the term Transnational Corporation (TNC) became the more acceptable name for firms operating in regional or global markets."
"What geographic pattern do many TNCs follow?","Operating primarily in developed northern economies","From the north and west operating in the south where cheap labor and raw materials are available","From south to north following talent migration","From east to west following consumer demand","B","A number of TNCs from the north and west have business operations in the south where cheap labor and raw materials are available — reflecting the structural global economic pattern."
"In 2000 General Motors' sales were compared to the GDP of which country?","Pakistan","South Korea","Switzerland","Denmark","D","According to the World Bank Development Report (2000) General Motors' sales in 2000 were almost the same as the GDP of Denmark — illustrating the immense economic power of TNCs."
"Sony's 2000 sales exceeded the GDP of which country?","Denmark","Pakistan","Bangladesh","India","B","Sony's 2000 sales exceeded Pakistan's GDP of roughly 59.9 billion dollars — demonstrating that some TNCs rival the economic output of entire nations."
"According to Fortune 2023 Global 500 which company ranked #1 by annual revenue?","Wal-Mart Stores","Amazon","Apple","Saudi Aramco","A","Wal-Mart Stores ranked #1 in the Fortune 2023 Global 500 with 638785 million dollars in revenue. It topped the list for four consecutive years."
"Which company ranked #3 in the Fortune 2023 Global 500?","State Grid","Sinopec","Amazon","China National Petroleum","A","State Grid — a Chinese government power company — ranked 3rd and remains China's top revenue generator company."
"Which was the ONLY European firm in the Fortune 2023 Global 500 Top 10?","Apple","Exxon Mobil","Shell Corporation","Amazon","C","Shell Corporation — a British company — was the only European firm in the Fortune 2023 Global 500 Top 10 ranking at 9th place."
"What is the primary consideration of regional economic integrations?","Political alignment among member states","Military security commitments","Free trade among member economies","Shared cultural identity","C","Free trade is the primary consideration of regional economic integrations — designed to address and enhance the level of competitiveness of member economies in trade."
"In a Free Trade Area (FTA) what happens to EXTERNAL tariffs?","They are also reduced to zero","They are eliminated only for developing members","They are standardized across all members","Member economies retain their different external tariffs","D","In a Free Trade Area internal tariffs are reduced to zero for member economies BUT each member retains its different external tariffs — distinguishing FTA from deeper integration models."
"How do Anti-FTA critics describe this transnational market system?","As complex and difficult to manage due to its win-win and win-lose approach","As a purely political arrangement with no economic benefit","As effective only for large developed economies","As a fair and equitable system for all members","A","Anti-FTAs describe the system as complex and difficult to manage because of its win-win and win-lose approach — where some countries win through trade dominance while others become free riders."
"What term is used for countries that depend on stronger FTA members' benefits without being competitive?","Periphery states","Semi-periphery","Emerging markets","Free riders","D","Countries that do NOT have the necessary materials logistics or systems to compete end up depending on the benefits of other countries and become 'free riders' in the FTA structure."
"AEC and APEC belong to which regional grouping?","Asia and Pacific","Latin America and Caribbean","Middle East and North Africa","Western Region","A","AEC and APEC are listed under the Asia and Pacific regional economic blocs. European Union and NAFTA are listed under the Western Region."
"In what year was GATT replaced by the WTO?","1990","1993","1999","1995","D","In 1995 GATT was replaced and succeeded by the World Trade Organization (WTO). GATT had served as the main umbrella for economic liberalization since after World War II."
"Where is the WTO headquartered?","New York USA","Brussels Belgium","Geneva Switzerland","Washington DC USA","C","The WTO is based in Geneva Switzerland. It is led by a director general selected by consensus among its members."
"As of 2008 how many members did the WTO have and what share of world trade did they account for?","151 members — 90% of world trade","164 members — 95% of world trade","189 members — 99% of world trade","100 members — 75% of world trade","A","As of 2008 the WTO had 151 members accounting for 90% of the world's trade. The WTO operates on a one country-one vote consensus basis."
"What is a major criticism of the WTO's voting system?","It operates on one country-one vote regardless of economic size or trade share making decisions political","It allows only developed countries to vote","It operates on a quota system based on economic size","It gives veto power to the five permanent members","A","A major criticism is that the WTO operates on one country-one vote — NOT based on quota system economic size or share in world trade — making its decisions highly political."
"What was the 'Battle of Seattle' a rallying cry against?","The formation of GATT","The dominance of the US dollar","The policies of the World Bank","Globalization and the WTO by civil society organizations","D","The 'Battle of Seattle' became a rallying cry by civil society organizations against globalization and the WTO — expressing concerns about human rights abuses and monopoly of large enterprises."
"What is the official full name of the World Bank?","International Economic Development Fund","Bretton Woods Financial Corporation","International Bank for Reconstruction and Development","Global Development and Investment Bank","C","The official name of the World Bank is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). It was formed by the Bretton Woods agreement in 1944."
"How many member countries does the World Bank have and in how many countries does it operate?","151 members operating in 120 countries","194 members operating in 150 countries","165 members operating in 100 countries","189 members operating in 130 countries","D","The World Bank has 189 member countries and operates in 130 countries worldwide. It was formed by the Bretton Woods agreement in 1944."
"Which World Bank agency focuses on poor and third-world economies through financial assistance and loan programs?","International Finance Corporation","Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency","International Development Association","International Settlement Centre of Investment Disputes","C","The International Development Association (IDA) is the World Bank agency that focuses on poor and third-world economies by providing financial assistance and loan programs."
"Which is a criticism of the World Bank according to Nau (2009)?","It has too many member countries to function","It concentrates on macro-scale projects while excluding micro and small projects affecting communities","It operates through a weighted voting system","Its decisions are made by the UN Security Council","B","Nau (2009) criticizes that the World Bank concentrates on macro-scale projects where micro and small projects affecting the lives of communities are excluded and not given proper attention."
"How does the IMF's voting system DIFFER from the WTO's?","IMF uses one country-one vote; WTO uses weighted voting","Both use weighted voting based on trade share","IMF uses Security Council-style veto power","IMF uses weighted voting based on contributions; WTO uses one country-one vote","D","The IMF operates through a weighted voting basis controlled by dominant contributors. The US holds the highest percentage. The WTO uses one country-one vote consensus."
"Which country holds the highest percentage of votes in the IMF?","France","Japan","United States","Great Britain","C","The United States holds the highest percentage of votes in the IMF's weighted voting system followed by Japan France and Great Britain."
"What are the THREE main responsibilities of the IMF?","Providing loans financing reconstruction and regulating trade","Supervising the exchange rate system providing loan programs and reviewing domestic monetary policies","Regulating FDI managing balance of payments and issuing global bonds","Setting tariffs monitoring TNCs and managing the global currency","B","The IMF's three main responsibilities are supervising the exchange rate system providing loan programs to economies experiencing balance of payments adjustments and reviewing domestic monetary policies."
"What criticism of the IMF's decision-making did civil society groups raise?","That it is biased toward developing countries","That it favors the most powerful economies and bars at-risk countries from influencing decisions affecting their own economies","That it has too few member countries","That it excludes private firms from governance","B","Civil society groups assert that the IMF's decision-making mechanism favors the most powerful economies and bars countries at risk of financial instability from influencing decisions (von Bernstorff 2021)."
"In what year was the European Union founded and under what original name?","1945 as the European Economic Zone","1963 as the Common Market","1973 as the European Trade Bloc","1958 as the European Economic Community (EEC)","D","The EU was founded in 1958 as the European Economic Community (EEC) by six founding countries: Belgium Germany France Italy Luxembourg and the Netherlands."
"Which of the following is NOT one of the six core values of the EU?","Human dignity","Democracy","Rule of law","Sovereignty","D","The six core values of the EU are Human dignity Freedom Democracy Equality Rule of law and Human rights. Sovereignty is not listed as one of the EU's core values."
"For what achievement was the EU awarded the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize?","Promoting peace and reconciliation in Europe","Creating the single market for free trade","Expanding membership to Eastern European nations","Establishing the Euro as a global currency","A","The EU was awarded the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize recognizing its efforts in the promotion of peace and reconciliation in Europe."
"How many EU citizens in how many countries use the Euro?","Over 200 million in 15 countries","Over 400 million in 22 countries","Over 340 million in 19 countries","Over 280 million in 17 countries","C","Over 340 million EU citizens in 19 countries use the Euro as the official currency of the EU."
"What is the EU's 'single market' described as?","A customs union charging uniform external tariffs","A common investment fund for member economies","A monetary authority managing the Euro exchange rate","A venue where goods and services move freely among members without restrictions and barriers","D","The EU's main economic engine is the single market — where goods and services can move freely among its members without restrictions and barriers."
"Which country is the NEWEST member of the EU?","Croatia","Romania","Cyprus","Bulgaria","A","Croatia is the newest member-economy of the EU joining in 2013. Bulgaria and Romania joined in 2007."
"In which year did the largest wave of new EU members join adding 10 countries?","1995","2007","2013","2004","D","The largest wave of EU expansion occurred in 2004 when 10 countries joined including Cyprus Czech Republic Estonia Hungary Latvia Lithuania Malta Poland Slovakia and Slovenia."
"Which term does Kearney (1995) prefer over both 'globalization' and 'westernization'?","Transnationalization","Multilateralism","Modernization","Internationalization","A","Kearney (1995) argues the world is neither westernization nor globalization and prefers the term 'transnationalization' — when people or groups transcend from one nation to the next."
"Condoleezza Rice described the Bush Doctrine as which of the following?","Pragmatic realism","Idealist multilateralism","Neoconservative unilateralism","Liberal institutionalism","A","Condoleezza Rice described the Bush Doctrine as 'pragmatic realism' — supporting the Realist view that political-military power drives globalization including the spread of liberal democracy."
"What does globalization's association with 'Westernization and Americanization' stem from?","The dominance of American military bases globally","The Western intensification of its economy","The United States' membership in international organizations","The spread of the English language worldwide","B","The reviewer states that globalization is sometimes associated with Westernization and Americanization because of the Western intensification of its economy."
"Which invention is NOT listed as a key feature of Globalization 1.0?","Steam engine","Internet","Railway system","Printing press","B","Globalization 1.0 (1492-1800) featured the steam engine printing press and railway system. The internet is a key feature of Globalization 3.0."
"Woodrow Wilson is associated with which theoretical explanation of globalization?","Realism — using power to spread markets","Idealism — championing freedom and democracy","Mercantilism — controlling colonial trade","Liberalism — forming international organizations","B","Woodrow Wilson championed American welfare during WWI through freedom and democracy — making him the key figure associated with Idealism in globalization theory."
"What does the MWS theory describe as the modern extension of classical imperialism?","The capitalist-imperialist approach using hard power over developing and less developed countries","The spread of democratic governance across developing nations","The formation of TNCs as drivers of economic growth","The formation of GATT and WTO","A","The Modern World System theory describes the modern extension of classical imperialism as the practice of the capitalist-imperialist approach by countries with immense resources using hard power over developing countries."
"What is a key observation of Angrist et al. (2021) about countries' economic strengths?","Most countries have unique and special primary sources of economic growth","Developed economies have diversified strengths across all sectors","Countries specialize based on government command planning","Countries with similar topography always share the same industries","A","Angrist et al. (2021) observe that most countries have unique and special primary sources of economic growth — and notably even countries with the same topography do NOT share the same industries."
"Which correctly pairs the type of economy with a country example from the reviewer?","Philippines — command economy","China (communist period) — mixed economy","Democratic countries — command economy","Single-party controlled countries — command economy","D","Single-party controlled countries usually practice command economy — where a central economic planning body handles all economic decisions. Democratic countries usually have systems based on individual freedom."
